# Software Engineering Article

### Link to the article:

- https://hbr.org/2021/07/career-crush-what-is-it-like-to-be-a-software-engineer

### Two paragraphs that I find interesting:
- What were those classes like? When you first started doing it, was it something that you were scared of or intimidated by? Or was it more accessible? 
- If I hadn’t seen other kids taking the classes, other people who didn’t know how to code, I would have been a lot more intimidated. But the introductory computer science courses at Stanford are super accessible. I even think they’re available publicly. They really start from the basics. You don’t have to know how to code at all to take the class. The professors were really great and they really walk you through, from the very, very basics, of what you need to know in order to code. I enjoyed the classes because a lot of it is coding. And that is what I currently do right now on the job. I like that direct application of skills. I am learning things that I will eventually use in my career. At first it’s a lot of puzzles. You code a little robot that navigates a maze. It’s simple stuff. I think my final project in my first class was building an extremely basic “Facebook.” They start you off simple and gradually ramp up the intensity. 
- When you were in college, you interned at both Lyft and Slack. Can you talk a little bit about how you landed those internships and what the experience was like for you? 
- I had a very interesting path to my first internship. Stanford does a lot of job fairs specifically for computer science students where tech companies in Silicon Valley show up and recruit. I had no idea how to navigate those spaces. I had zero clue how to land a computer science internship. I got one interview for front-end web development, which I had never done. A lot of Stanford’s introductory courses focus on back-end work, like algorithms and data structures. So they were asking me questions about web development I just couldn’t answer. It was terrible. I was really lost. I had no idea how I was going to get a job for the summer. Then, I remembered some of my friends were applying to an organization called Code2040. Code2040 is an organization that helps Black and Latinx students who study computer science enter the software engineering tech field. They have partnerships with companies that take on Code2040 interns. And it’s a pretty intense process. You have to do a technical interview to even get into the Code2040 program. You have to do a writing interview and a video interview, as well. Once you make it into Code2040, at that point you can start interviewing with their partner companies. At the time, Lyft was a partner company with Code2040. I interviewed and the interview process was really hard. But Code2040 definitely helps you navigate that process, as well. So it was a good program for me, as someone who had no clue how to get into tech at all. I interviewed with Lyft and then eventually got a job offer. Code2040 is a summer-long program. You go to workshops, you network with a lot of other people who are in the program, you work with other companies who are also partner companies. Slack is a partner company who I networked with during my first summer interning and then was able to use that connection when it came to getting an internship the next summer.

### Comment by Zhiyi Zheng
I found this article very informative and insightful as it presents detailed information through the format of an interview. By allowing software engineers to share their personal experiences and insights, it offers readers a firsthand look into the profession. This approach not only makes the content engaging but also provides a more comprehensive understanding of what it truly means to be a software engineer, making it a valuable resource for anyone considering a career in software engineering.
